I mentioned one other modern feature
which we can use a node now,
which I didn't use throughout this entire course.
And that would be promises in core APIs.
And that's important.
I did use promises throughout the course,
we have whole modules dedicated to promises and async await.
So you absolutely should know what promises are,
how they work and why we use them by now.
We use them because a lot of third party libraries
and also our own code can of course utilize promises
to handle potentially asynchronous operations.
Now there is one part of the node apps we wrote thus far,
which doesn't really leverage promises
and that would be the core APIs baked into node.
I'm talking about things like read file
from the file system module.
There we use this callback based approach.
And the reason for that is very simple,
when Node.js was created,
promises simply weren't a thing,
they didn't land in mainstream JavaScript yet,
that's why Node.js and its core APIs are callback based.
Now, of course, here, we're using a different approach
of sending the file back anyways.
But if we switch back to the previous approach,
and if you had some operation
that needs to read a file or do anything else
with a core node module,
you might wish to be able to use a promise
instead of this callback approach
which you're forced to use unfortunately,
while there are good news,
a lot of core APIs baked into node
now also have promise support.
Again, we can dive into the official docs,
and there if you check out the file system documentation
we'll find one interesting thing.
Data we find all the methods we can use on the file system,
that's all nice,
but if we scroll down further,
we see that there is a fs Promises API.
And essentially, that's all the file system features here,
now available in a promise based version.
So for example, we also have a write file method now,
which actually embraces promises
so that we can use promises with these core APIs.
And a lot of the built in core APIs
have such a promise version.
How do we use that?
Well, we need to import the file system
slightly differently.
Instead of from fs, we import from fs/promises.
And that's all, if you by the way
use the old D require import syntax, it's the same.
So there you can also use promises
even if you're not using the other import syntax
I showed you here.
Actually, I have to step in here.
This is not correct.
You would import it like this,
if you use the other import syntax.
You access the promises proper key
on the imported file system object.
And this promises property
exposes the file system object
with all those file system methods using promises.
This is the proper way of importing it.
Now, since we use the different import syntax,
I unfortunately wrote this incorrect syntax here.
Keep in mind if you would use that upper import syntax,
it's this year,
this is how you would get access
to those promise based API's not this.
Just a little addition here
which I recognized after I recorded this.
Sorry for the inconvenience here.
In this module of course,
we're using this syntax anyways though.
Now with that, we got the file system object available.
And we can call read file on that
but this read file method now returns a promise,
which eventually will resolve to the data
where to the err or data we're getting back.
So now we can grab this call back
and remove it from here and remove that third argument.
And instead use then and catch
or async await whatever you prefer,
just as you learned it throughout this course.
And that's of course pretty nice
because now we can use all the promise advantages,
like promise chaining to escape callback hell,
on core APIs like this one as well.
One adjustment we need to make though,
now since we're using promises,
of course in the ven method, we never get an error,
here we just get the data.
If we would want to handle errors,
we would have to add a catch method
and then here we can handle any error
we might get when we try to reach that file.
So that is how we could transform this code to promises now,
and they offer if we now start this server here.
We again see our file being served here,
we see our page being loaded,
but now with the promise based version
of this core node module.
Now just as the new import syntax, it's 100% optional.
It's not better than the average approach,
you might simply prefer it
because you might prefer promises,
especially if you chain multiple promises for example.
And therefore this is definitely all the feature
which I didn't want to hide from you
and which I just wanted to show you here.